Hardware

I'm using a MakerDuino from Maker Studio which is a good quality
Arduino Uno clone. These have a 16MHz CPU, 2K or RAM and 32K of rewritable ROM.

The display consists of 3 8x8 RGB "rainbow block" matrix driver boards.
These chain together. Pixel data is sent serially with 2 output pins for
data and clock. A further 3 pins control row select and a final pin
enables display blanking.

3 panels is the practical limit for power, CPU time and memory reasons.
The display works by clocking in a row's worth of RGB data then enabling
the display of that row, then blanking it, selecting the next row and
clocking in the data for it,  etc.

Hence at any instant only one row of pixels is on. Yet if these
were driven at full brightnews, say 30mA per red/green/blue sub pixel,
it would draw 0.03 * 3 * 24 (8x3 panels) = > 2 amps! Hence
my ARGB library limits the brightness. The display can still be very bright.

Display Driver

I wrote optimised code to clock out the data as quick as possible without
"ghosting" which occurs if you switch rows too quickly. An interrupt routine
sends a row every millisecond, so the entire display refreshes every 8ms which
results in a flicker free 125FPS.

The delays needed in the interrupt routine mean significant time is spent
clocking out the data which reduces CPU available to the main routine
where the animations are produced.

Animation Buffer Memory

My ARGB driver uses 2 memory buffers for the display. The animation
effects composit and blend themselves into one buffer. This is then
copied and blended with text / bitmap overlays into the second buffer
which is the one that the interrupt continuously sends to the panels.

This results in flicker free animations and the ability to fade the
animation effects while the text scrolls smoothly over it, etc.

With 3 panels, 24x8x3 bytes are needed for each buffer, 576 bytes.
The two buffers hence use over half the available RAM.

This demo is actually triple buffered as a third monochrome 24 byte buffer
enables a connected computer to send arbitrary graphics. I wanted this
so Korean text and other unicode symbols could be scrolled over the animations.

ASCII text can also be sent directly as ARGB has the standard ASCII font in it.

Serial Interface

The arduino program can accept commands over the USB virtual serial port.
I found fast baud (115k) rates resulted in lost characters as the delays
in the interrupt routine limit servicing the port fast enough.
For this application 9600 baud is fast enough and works well.

Commands generally consist of a start letter, text/params and newline and/or
carriage return <CR> character, ASCII 13.

Command sumamry:

a<CR>        : Switch to animation mode
l<CR>        : Lock the current effect instead of randomly changing
n<CR>        : Next effect (works even if locked)

c<CR>        : Switch to clock mode (default on power on)
h<CR>        : toggle 24 hour time display
HH:MM<CR>    : Sets the clock, HH:MM in 24 hour time, eg: 07:30. No prefix.

mText<CR>    : Scrolls the text from right to left.
               Switches to animation mode if not already.

|HH<CR>      : Sends a vertical "bitslice" of monochrome pixels. HH is a hex
               byte from 00 to FF. The bits are interpreted as a vertical
               slice of pixels, LSB is the top pixel. They are placeed
               in the right most column. When used repeatedly previous
               pixels are shifted left.

               The send rate of this command determines the scroll speed.
               
               The animations continue, dimmed in the background. The dimming
               is applied gradually.

$<CR>          Ends bitslice mode. The dimming is gradually removed.

#<CR>          Starts RGB slice mode. If in animation or clock mode, the
               display is blanked. Following this, exactly 24 bytes are
               expected representing the red, green and blue intensities
               for the pixels from the top right to the bottom right.
               Raw bytes are expected not hex.

               Repeating this command scrolls the previous display to the left.

               Using this arbitrary full colour graphics can be sent to the
               display. However note the display has a very non linear intensity
               response.

               Use the "a" or "c" command to exit this mode.

Once set, clock time is kept regardless of the mode but you want
an Arduino board with a crystal and may have to tune the timer
timing in ARGB.CPP.

Whilst RAM is very tight, there is pletny of program space free for enhancements
(eg: parameterising settings, finer clock calibration) if there
is any interest.

Fine adjustments
Desk clock: d03
BR clock  : d11


